You don't sell time! You sell results! But producing sub-par results to conceal the amount of time you actually work is unethical!

Despite what everyone says here, you do not sell 40 hours of data entry per week, you sell the result processing X spreadsheets.

Think about it this way: if you get distracted, and in one month make so many mistakes entering the data that the entire month gets lost. They would not fire you, but I'm pretty sure that you will face some kind of reprimand, despite working full time. Time in this case is a measurement of the work put in. If time would be the ultimate goal, you wouldn't have different consequences for different results but the same time. You show up for 40h and that's it. But because time is used as a shortcut to express a reasonable amount of work done by a reasonably competent person in that time, results are different based on the quality of your work.

I can't find the reference, but in one comment OP stated that the company made it clear in the beginning that they expect OP to work more than 40h per week if the need arises, which further reinforces my point.

Unethical is the fact that you introduced bogus results in an attempt to conceal that you are faster (unethical because is clearly dishonest, and because it may produce harm if people do not realize the incorrect result). You don't have to tell them, but you can't lie about it.

From a practical point of view, I don't think that if you tell them, it would be any risk to you. From the description, it's likely that they would not understand what exactly you did, they would not trust the process and they would not risk firing you without having a backup. However, telling them would open a strange discussion that you might not want to have.

Note that there's a difference between ethics and the law, contracts and currently accepted norms. None of them have anything to do with ethics. They are the result of negotiation between two parties, one of which, currently, has much more power than the other.
